OH NO, SPOTIFY LOCKED DOWN ALL THE USEFULA APIs, HOW CAN WE MOVE TO OPENSOURCE?

track database options
- https://musicbrainz.org/doc/MusicBrainz_Database/Download#ASC_files
- https://acousticbrainz.org/data has pre-analyzed tracks.  Static set of music, not being updated any longer.

track analysis options
- https://essentia.upf.edu/ -- under the hood in acousticbrainz
- https://github.com/Polochon-street/bliss-rs -- rust library that has analysis and built in distance functions
- https://librosa.org/doc/latest/index.html -- python library
- https://github.com/libAudioFlux/audioFlux -- newer python library

implementation of recommendation algo
  -- keep algo that measures vectors equidistant in between bookend vectors
  -- for each vector, fetch the nearest track from the db
  -- fetch each track's playback info


  simplest path to start
    - download a portion of the acousticbrainz data
    - store each vector in a db
        - opensearch? weaviate? qdrant? vespa? mongo? postgres with pgvector?
    - plug into recommendation algo
    - test on small set of bookend tracks
    - move on to searching for bookend tracks



----- pre spotify shutdown backlog -----



search input background color

mobile readability
    don't extend vertical space for login and out of subscription pages
    widen track input cards to take up almost the whole screen width
    make all fonts bigger
    simplify search results??

test other browsers
    firefox
        mobile
        desktop
     safari -- not supported by spotify.com?  if not, is it worth testing? does this become the task of opening in spotify app?
        mobile
        desktop
    edge
        mobile
        desktop

Mood track selection improvements
    experiment: top genre driven instead of top artist driven
        get user's top genres
        if there is a finite number of generes, map each one to a mood
        then, grab the genres that map to the desired mood, and use them as seeds
    experiment: get a subset of seed artists most likely to suit a mood?
        how?
        track info?  would be slow.
        genre exclusion list?
            if an artist is in a certain genre that clashes with the mood, skip them.
    add moods
        sad
        angry


improve smoothness of song to song recommendation algo
    right now they often feel like there is a part 1 and part 2 where the transition after the middle is jarring
        especially when the user gives a very different start and end point.
    maybe include both endpoints as seed tracks for the 2nd and 2nd to last track
        also add in genre from the closer track in an attempt to keep smoothness?
    experiment with seed tracks input for each position in the playlist


break apart css into multiple files

convert to typescript

i'm becoming annoyed by the large numbe of playlists clogging my library
    X does the API now support creating folders -- NO as of 2024-11-10
    ? give some fun names to the playlists
        create fun playlist titles with small language model
    ? play in app and then add a second step to create playlist?
        in app listening would also make it easier to build user feedback into UX
    X add to queue instead of creating playlist
        don't love this because then Spotify doesn't automatically keep the vibe going
    X can there be a TTl on a playlist
        could be very frustrating for playlists to disappear if you like them

update the logo, flip the map vertically so it looks like a W

allow generes in addition to songs and moods?

analytics
    log inputs, intermediate steps, and outputs of playlist creation
    allow users to like/dislike songs in created playlists
        store it

add e2e tests

Transparency and Feedback, show users the origin-destination pattern that makes waveguide unique
    1. As playlist is building show steps
        ?? break out mood selection and playlist creation into different endpoints?
        Show selection of song 1
        Show selection of song 2
        Show dotted line animation between the album arts
            wave guide is finding a path...
        Playlist created

review all TODOs in code

---------------------
Lower priority
----------------------

unify language for beginning and end points
    replace "seed" with "source" where appropriate for consistency -- or unify on "beginning"???
    replace "track" with "song"?

logging, replace all prints

type checker

rename auto complete to search

'title' tooltips show up faster

use build manager tool so we don't have to pull deps from CDN

BIG LIFT support adding multiple "waypoints" not just beginning and destination


EXPERIMENT:
    experiment with re-ranking recommendations from spotify API
        - valence
        - danceability
        - combo of the two

EXPERIMENT:
    How do we guide the recommendations between keys as the positivitey increases?
    https://mixedinkey.com/camelot-wheel/


NOT CURRENTLY SUPPORTED BY SPOTIFY:
    https://community.spotify.com/t5/Closed-Ideas/API-Add-endpoints-for-managing-playlist-folders/idi-p/5267188
    put all playlists within a folder in spotify

??add url query args so refreshing and link sharing works

minimize number of API calls
    X rather than doing a track.find() can I get the metadata I need from the search response?
      de-prioritized.  This adds a lot of complexity and tighter coupling of searching and playlist creation.

open in spotify app if installed?